<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="" xml:lang="">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, user-scalable=yes" />
  <meta name="author" content="R. J. LeVeque and T. P. Chartier" />
  <title>A Simple Example Using LaTeX</title>
  <style type="text/css">
      code{white-space: pre-wrap;}
      span.smallcaps{font-variant: small-caps;}
      span.underline{text-decoration: underline;}
      div.column{display: inline-block; vertical-align: top; width: 50%;}
  </style>
	<script src="https://polyfill.io/v3/polyfill.min.js?features=es6"></script>
	<script type="text/javascript" id="MathJax-script" async
					 src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/mathjax@3/es5/tex-chtml.js">
	</script>
</head>
<body>
<header id="title-block-header">
<h1 class="title">A Simple Example Using LaTeX</h1>
<p class="author">R. J. LeVeque and T. P. Chartier</p>
</header>
<h1 id="introduction">Introduction</h1>
<p>This paper illustrates how various typesetting is accomplished in LaTeX. You are encouraged to view both the source code (<span>sample.tex</span>) and the typeset paper (<span>sample.dvi</span>).</p>
<p>First, notice that components of your paper such as <span><em>sections, subsections,</em></span> and <span><em>equations</em></span> are numbered automatically.</p>
<h2 id="lists">Lists</h2>
<p>Making an itemized list is easy:</p>
<ul>
<li><p>If the LaTeX  file is called <span>sample.tex</span> then output is created by executing<br />
<span>latex sample</span><br />
This creates a file <span>sample.dvi</span>. To view or print, see documentation for your system.</p></li>
<li><p>Note that leaving one or more blank lines in the input gives the start of a new paragraph. Otherwise blanks do not matter. To force a line to end, use double backslash as in the previous item as seen in <span>sample.tex</span>.</p></li>
<li><p>Anything after a % is a comment that won’t appear in the output.</p></li>
</ul>
<h1 id="mathematical-formulas">Mathematical formulas</h1>
<p>This paper supplies only a taste of how mathematical formulas are created in LaTeX. For more information, see a LaTeX  manual such as <span class="citation" data-cites="go-mi-sa:latex"></span>. As a short introduction, a few pointers are contained in this section.</p>
<p>Dollar signs places LaTeX  into its math mode, which is where mathematical formulas and equations are created. To include an equation in a current line of text, place one dollar sign ($) before and after the equation, for example we might define <span class="math inline">\(f(x) = 3e^x\)</span>. If an equation should be displayed, place two dollar signs ($$) before and after the equation. For example, we might define: <span class="math display">\[\sum_{j=1}^N j = \frac{N(N+1)}{2}.\]</span> If the equation should be numbered, use the following notation (see the LaTeX  file): <span class="math display">\[e^{i\pi} = \cos(\pi) = -1.
\label{cosequation}\]</span> This equation was given a label (which is optional). Hence, the equation can be referred to later as (<a href="#cosequation" data-reference-type="ref" data-reference="cosequation">[cosequation]</a>) rather than hardcoding such numbers into the LaTeX  file. Therefore, adding new equations does not facilitate a need for the programmer to manually renumber the equations. (Note that you will have to run LaTeX  twice on your <span>.tex</span> file for numbering to appear properly. The first run stores the labels in the file <span>sample.aux</span> and the second time run reads these labels at the beginning of processing.)</p>
<h1 id="matrices">Matrices</h1>
<p>Matrices can be made using an “array”. Here’s a useful definition that makes it easier to define matrices: (see the LaTeX  source file)</p>
<p>Here’s a simple matrix equation using this definition: <span class="math display">\[\left[\begin{array}{ccccccccccccc} a_{11} &amp; a_{12} \\ a_{21} &amp; a_{22} \end{array}\right]
\left[\begin{array}{ccccccccccccc} x_1\\ x_2 \end{array}\right]
= \left[\begin{array}{ccccccccccccc} b_1\\ b_2 \end{array}\right]
\label{matrixequation}\]</span></p>
<h1 id="figures">Figures</h1>
<p>Many plotting packages (e.g. matlab) allow you to produce an encapsulated postscript file (ending in <span>.eps</span>). Then the graphic can be incorporated into a paper with the following command (see the LaTeX  file)</p>
<p>Note that the <span>caption</span> command gives the figure a number that can be referred to later as Figure <a href="#figlabel" data-reference-type="ref" data-reference="figlabel">[figlabel]</a>.</p>
<p>The file <span>fig.eps</span> was created in matlab with the commands:</p>
<pre><code>     &gt;&gt; r = randn(1000,1);
     &gt;&gt; hist(r)             
     &gt;&gt; colormap([.7 .7 .7])    % to change the color and make it print better
     &gt;&gt; print fig.eps</code></pre>
<h1 id="bibliography-and-citations">Bibliography and citations</h1>
<p>See a LaTeX  manual such as <span class="citation" data-cites="go-mi-sa:latex"></span> for complete information on the use of a bibliography and citations. The main idea is the use of a bibliographic database such as the one in <span>samplebib.bib</span>, which lists a large set of papers and books, each with a distinct label. Then the <span>cite</span> command references one of the entries in the database by its label. Hence, the citation is included in the paper; the corresponding reference is automatically included in the bibliography of the paper. To do this, you must:</p>
<ol>
<li><p>First run <span>latex sample</span></p></li>
<li><p>Then run <span>bibtex sample</span></p></li>
<li><p>Then run <span>latex sample</span></p></li>
<li><p>Then run <span>latex sample</span></p></li>
</ol>
<p>The first run of LaTeX  creates a file <span>sample.aux</span> that contains information on the literature references. Running bibtex then creates another file <span>sample.bbl</span>, which is read into the next LaTeX  run producing the list of literature references. Running LaTeX  twice more is needed to read in the citations with proper numbering.</p>
</body>
</html>
